[MUSIC]
>> Brian Lonsdorf: This is idea of map
that if you map over the container,
you'll basically grab its value and
pass it to the function.
See we've got, let me,
I like this, how do you,
yeah, this s here is our flamethrower.
See that?
It pulls out the flamethrower and
gives it to the function and now we can
capitalize cuz this s is just a string.
So what we've done is
opened up our container and
given its value to the function.
Then it closes it back up.
So let's look at that for
a minute and think it over.
Does anybody have any questions or
are you kind of confused?
Let's think about that.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: [LAUGH]
You look really upset with that.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: I guess
the problem is it's mixing concept,
because there's object-oriented
that we have to use because that's
what JavaScript is underneath, right?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: And then somehow we're
making a functional,
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Just hang on to that.
I'm just calling it the the same thing.
We'll get to it, we'll trace, but the idea
is that, don't think of it as an object.
Think of it as a container for
our string, and
when we map over our container the string
goes into the function we're mapping over.
We're just opening up our container,
giving its value to the function and so
within that function I've got my string,
it's there and I can capitalize it.
And then when we're done mapping
it goes back into the container.
We're gonna look at another
example to probably clear this up.
Yeah, I should mention that,
you don't need to write a full function.
I just wanted to do that to show
you like it'll just populate,
pass it right into the capitalize.
>> Speaker 3: Hey, Brian,
there was a question if this is preferable
to using valueOf in your container object?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: ValueOf,
is a hack on JavaScript that you
can use to do some crazy stuff.
But what I'm doing is I'm actually
assigning a property to my object and
it's gonna make
the implementations easier.
But if you guys want to experiment,
I actually mentioned like
nobody is doing this right now.
Get out there and play with it,
get crazy cuz maybe valueOf will be the
solution that we've all been looking for.
[LAUGH] So,
we're just using val as a convention.
But look at the implementation
of map real quick and
see I have to grab this.val.
And that actually is, if you look at
map and you look at what's happening,
we're literally running the function
on the value inside the container.
That's what map is doing,
it's running the function that's given
to it on the value inside the container.
It's like it's saying what it's doing.
We're gonna get more into the intuition
in what we're doing here.
But yeah, play around with valueOf,
that's my answer.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: So is the reason that we're
doing this container so that we can
add functions into the prototype?
The map for example.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: We will,
that's exactly right.
>> Speaker 2: That's one of
the things we're trying to get to.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: That's how we're
going to get dynamic dispatch.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: So this concept isn't
foreign, right?
Everybody knows how to map over an array.
We were all just doing that, we have our
container of three, we map over it and
add one.
Or I shouldn't say container,
we have an array of three,
we're mapping add one over it.
We've got a container of three
Now, most people think of map and they're
like, iteration over a collection, for
loop, I got what map does.
That's just a specific
implementation of map on an array.
We're gonna get into the general idea
of map that works on anything, and
that container is just like a singleton
array, it's got a value in it.
And we're gonna map a function over it.
Are you guys good with me?
Who's with me?
[LAUGH] All right, stick with it.
I'll show you why we're doing this.
But right now, you're still
probably just like, that's stupid.
[LAUGH] All right, so,
yeah, the true idea is
you go inside an object and
you run a function from within the object.
So we saw that function
run inside the container.
This is Joe's slide, it's so cool.
[LAUGH] Anyway, we go into our container.
One thing that's important
to note about this is,
is we've got, there's a lot going on
in the slide and we'll talk about.
The top line here,
we have our container of one, two, three.
We're gonna map reverse over it and
then map first over that, right?
So what we're gonna do is basically,
when this goes into reverse,
we get a reversed list.
Oops, we get a reversed list.
And then when we map over
that reversed list and
grab first, we get the value of three.
It's changing types inside the container.
It cannot have a type that is like,
it's this container takes strings.
Doesn't work.
This container has to take any
value if it's gonna be mapped over.
Notice how that's composition?
Is that weird?
That top line, left or right composition,
that's what we all wanted, right?
[LAUGH] And there's actually laws that
enforce that, that is composition.
There's some weird like theory behind
this stuff that we're gonna get into.
But that's string that we can map,
and that's composition.
Underneath that, we're gonna get
the length of the flamethrower and
then add one to the length, so we get 13.
So, it changed from a string to a number,
and then we added one to it.
The top one changed from and
array to another array and
we grabbed the first one.
So, you can chain maps and the reason you
can chain maps is because it keeps putting
it back in the container after you map,
right?
Like if I map reverse over one,
two, three,
I will get a container of three, two, one.
And if I map first over
the container of three, two, one,
I'll get a container of three.
It just keeps putting it back into
the container, so you can keep mapping.
It's kinda like when people return this,
so you can keep chaining.
It's like, it's that, but in a more
functional sense cuz we're making copies
we're not just returning this.
That's something else I should mention,
we're making copies of
container along the way.
You could probably optimize, but I'm not
doing that, but I'm gonna be immutable.
All right, so, we're gonna spend a lot
of time on functors, cuz you guys got
to understand them or else you're gonna
not understand monads or applicatives.
So it is a larger ghost.
[SOUND] Sorry, I'm trying to like,
I'm getting distracted by the chat,
maybe I should turn this down.
[LAUGH] So what was the slide about?
Yeah, I just wanted point out,
so like we saw before,
we've got this map that takes its function
and its argument and we've got the map
that we call dot on, that's why
we're not using underscore dot map,
the bottom one, all it's doing is
turning around and calling .map for us.
So the main difference here, these do
exactly the same thing, these two maps.
But the main difference is
this one needs to exist.
This Container(3) needs to exist so
I can call .map on it.
This Container(3) doesn't need to, I could
just partially apply this map without one.
Just like we've been
partially applying things and
currying things,
the same difference whatever.
Scott would get mad at me for that.
[LAUGH] But the idea is that all
we're gonna do is to find a map
that we can just call
dot on under the hood.
Does everybody see that?
It's second argument we
are just calling .map on it.
This is gonna be a pattern too, just
throughout, like if you ever wanna make
something more functional and point free
and composable, just take it's object last
and call dot under it, under the hood.
>> Speaker 2: Did
you say that the container didn't
need to exist in that second
part?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: And
the second line is partially
upon that cuz it's curry.
So, I don't need a container for
it, it just be map by one.
And the top one, what do I call dot on?
I don't have the container,
I can't call dot on anything.
>> Speaker 2: But
when you _curry function,
you need something that has a map
function in the prototype?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: I'm sorry,
what I meant to say is the map since is
curry, I can just give it map add and
I can partially apply it without
that second argument, but
the top one it needs its.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: And then that way,
you can build for like machines
of just composing functions and
stuff without getting our data first.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: All right, so
here's some examples of our new map,
I just took the dot and
now we're just using the normal map we've
always been using in this class but
we're now using the underscore dot just,
and we're gonna call like, all right,
what if our container matches cat?
We can't just call match on catsup.
We have to map that over it, right?
Because it's inside the container.
Match does not work with the container,
it works with the string inside
the container, so we map over it.
Just like if catsup was in a list or
an array and
we wanted to map that match
function over the array,
you can't just give an array to match, you
have to give the strings inside the array.
So, you're basically mapping this function
over the value inside the container.
So, let me know if how you
guys are feeling about this,
cuz you have to do exercises in a minute
and I'm gonna be like, I'm not helping.
[LAUGH] Compose underneath is
just going to reverse dog and
grab the first, so we'll get the g.
That's my favorite example of
reversing first to get last.
So there's just a way to use map and
we could have just called the dot syntax.
But this is kinda more composable
in our point free way here.